feat(cli,core): add Auto approval mode with LLM classifier (#4151)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/users/features/auto-mode.md

- `"Running database migrations against the local test DB"`

**"Auto mode classifier unavailable"**

The classifier API didn't respond. Possible causes:

- Network issue between you and the model endpoint.
- The configured fast model is no longer available — check `/model --fast`.
- The transcript is too long and exceeds the fast-model context window.

While diagnosing, switch back to Default Mode: `/approval-mode default`.

**"Falling back to manual approval"**

You've hit either the 3-consecutive-block or 2-consecutive-unavailable
guard. Approve or reject the prompt as you normally would. After one
approved fallback the consecutive counter resets.

**The classifier sees sensitive data in my prompts**

Tool inputs are projected through each tool's `toAutoClassifierInput`
method before they reach the classifier. Long edit content, web fetch
prompts, and sub-agent prompts are truncated. Tool results (file
contents, web pages) are never sent to the classifier — only the user's
text and assistant tool-use calls go through.

If a specific tool is exposing fields you'd rather redact, file an issue
with the tool name; the projection is per-tool and is meant to be
tightened over time.

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: **建议补一条 MCP 行为说明**:`packages/core/src/tools/tools.ts` 中 `toAutoClassifierInput` 的基类默认返回 `''` 空字符串哨兵(`classifier-transcript.ts` 的 `projectFunctionArgs` 把它转成 `{}`)。这意味着任何未 override 投影函数的工具(尤其是**所有 MCP 工具**)送给 classifier 的 payload 都只有 `tool_name` + `{}` 空参数。

`autoMode.ts` 的 `SAFE_TOOL_ALLOWLIST` 注释也明确说 "MCP tools are intentionally excluded (third-party code, cannot be statically trusted regardless of name)",所以 MCP 必须走 classifier。但 classifier 看不到参数 → 倾向 block → **MCP 工具在 AUTO 下事实上默认被拦截**,需要用户通过 `permissions.allow` 显式放行才能用。

这是合理的 fail-closed 设计,但用户不会预期到,docs 应该明说。建议在 Limitations 加一条:

> - **MCP tools are fail-closed by default.** The default `toAutoClassifierInput` projection strips MCP tool arguments (their schemas may contain API keys, file contents, or sensitive payloads). The classifier only sees the tool name, so MCP calls will typically be blocked unless covered by an explicit `permissions.allow` rule.

Author: Already fixed in `a3138cf5d`. Added a 'MCP tools default to conservative blocking' bullet in Limitations that explains the fail-closed projection + gives users a concrete escape hatch (`permissions.allow: ["mcp__server__tool"]`). Wording is slightly more verbose than your draft but covers the same two points.

- **Not offline-capable.** The classifier requires an LLM call.
- **Adds latency on the slow path.** Allowlist + acceptEdits cover most
  calls without latency, but a `run_shell_command` typically adds
  ~300ms (fast classifier path) or ~3-5s (slow path with thinking
  review).
- **Not a substitute for `deny` rules.** The classifier is best-effort.
  For commands you're sure should never run, put them in
  `permissions.deny`.

## FAQ

**Does Auto Mode send my code to a third party?**

Auto Mode reuses your existing model configuration — same endpoint as
the main agent. If you've configured Qwen Code to use a self-hosted
model, the classifier runs against that endpoint too.

**Will my secrets / `.env` contents reach the classifier?**

The classifier sees only what each tool's `toAutoClassifierInput`
projection exposes:

- `read_file` and other read-only tools: not invoked (they're on the
  fast-path allowlist).
- `edit` / `write_file`: file_path plus the first 80 characters of
  old/new content. Full content is not forwarded.
- `run_shell_command`: the full command (it has to — that's what the
  classifier judges).
- `web_fetch`: the URL only. The prompt field is not forwarded.

> - `agent`: subagent type plus the first 200 characters of the prompt.

Reviewer: **Docs 与实现不符**:这里说 `agent` 暴露 "subagent type plus the first 200 characters of the prompt",但 [`agent.ts`](https://github.com/QwenLM/qwen-code/blob/c5cf60ee8fee2592f2a87c7a96d9379ae237ec69/packages/core/src/tools/agent/agent.ts#L621-L633) 的实现是**完整 prompt 不截断**,而且 `packages/core/src/tools/toAutoClassifierInput.test.ts` 里有显式回归保护(L4961-L4977 注释 "prior implementation truncated to 200 chars, which hid attack payloads placed after character 200 from the classifier while the sub-agent still received the full text")。

200 字符截断之前是一个不对称攻击面 —— classifier 看到 prefix,sub-agent 实际收到完整文本,攻击 payload 可以放在 200 字符之后。

建议改成:

```
- `agent`: subagent_type and the full prompt (truncating would hide attack payloads from the classifier while the sub-agent still received them).
```

Author: Already fixed in `a3138cf5d` (landed right before this comment). Docs now read 'subagent type plus the full prompt' + adds the safety rationale (same shape as run_shell_command forwarding the full command). The regression guard you reference in the test file is intentionally preserved.

## Configuring hints

Auto Mode reads `permissions.autoMode` from your `settings.json`. The
entries are natural-language descriptions, not rule patterns — they are
injected additively into the classifier's system prompt alongside the
built-in defaults.

```json
{
  "permissions": {
    "autoMode": {
      "hints": {
        "allow": [
          "Running poetry install and poetry update in this Python project",
          "Cleaning build artifacts under ./dist or ./build",
          "Reading any file under /Users/me/code/"
        ],
        "deny": [
          "Any network call to intranet.example.com endpoints",
          "Modifying anything under ~/.ssh or ~/.aws",
          "Running migration scripts that touch the production DB"
        ]
      },
      "environment": [
        "This is a private monorepo with strict commit signing",
        "Production credentials live in 1Password, never in plain files"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Length and count limits

To keep the classifier system prompt small:

- Each entry is capped at 200 characters (longer entries are truncated
  with a warning).
- `hints.allow` and `hints.deny` accept up to 50 entries each.

> - `environment` accepts up to 20 entries.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** **Doc/code mismatch: environment entry limit.** This says "up to 20 entries" but `formatSection` in `classifier-prompts/system-prompt.ts` uses `MAX_USER_HINTS_PER_SECTION = 50` for all three sections (allow, deny, environment). There is no separate cap of 20 for environment.

```suggestion
- `environment` accepts up to 50 entries.
```

_— qwen-latest-series-invite-beta-v34 via Qwen Code /review_

  For commands you're sure should never run, put them in
  `permissions.deny`.
- **MCP tools default to conservative blocking.** Third-party MCP tools
  (`mcp__*`) opt-in to argument forwarding via the
  `toAutoClassifierInput` override. Tools that have not opted in expose
  only their name to the classifier — most such calls are
  conservatively blocked unless you've written an explicit `allow`
  rule. This is fail-closed by design (credentials and voluminous
  content do not leak into the classifier LLM). If you trust a
  specific MCP tool, add `permissions.allow: ["mcp__server__tool"]` so
  it bypasses the classifier entirely.

## FAQ

**Does Auto Mode send my code to a third party?**

Auto Mode reuses your existing model configuration — same endpoint as
the main agent. If you've configured Qwen Code to use a self-hosted
model, the classifier runs against that endpoint too.

**Will my secrets / `.env` contents reach the classifier?**

The classifier sees only what each tool's `toAutoClassifierInput`
projection exposes:

- `read_file` and other read-only tools: not invoked (they're on the
  fast-path allowlist).

> - `edit` / `write_file`: file_path plus the first 80 characters of

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** **Doc/code mismatch: edit preview length.** This says "first 80 characters" but the code in `edit.ts:816-817` and `write-file.ts:690` uses `content.slice(0, 300)`. The code was bumped from 80 to 300 in commit `070e8165d` but the docs were not updated.

```suggestion
- `edit` / `write_file`: file_path plus the first 300 characters of
  old/new content. Full content is not forwarded.
```

_— qwen-latest-series-invite-beta-v34 via Qwen Code /review_
